# Linear Regression

- Supervised learning model
- Simple ye useful for predicting quantitative response
- It predicts by computing weighted sums of input features and a constant, called the bias/intercept term.
  
## How to find parameters?
- Define a cost/error function and find the parameters that minimizes the cost/error.
- Common methods:
  - Mean Square Error(MSE)
  - Least Squares Method (LSM)
  - Gradient Descent (GD)

## Main Steps
1. Use least-squares to fit a line to the data
2. Calculate R<sup>2</sup>
3. Calculate p-value for R<sup>2</sup>

**NOTE:** R<sup>2</sup> is the goodness of fit measure for linear regression models

## Terminology
- **Residual:** Distance from a line to a data point.
- **Root Mean Square Error(RSME):** Measure of how far from the regression line data points are.
- **R<sup>2</sup>:** It indicates the percentage of variance in the dependent variable that the independent variable explains collectively. <br/><center>(OR)</center> Measures the strength of the relationship between your model and the dependent variable (scale 0-100%).
- **Null Hypothesis:** An initial statement claiming there is no relationship between two measured events.
- **p-value:** Tests the null hypothesis
  - if p value < 0.05, the null hypothesis can be rejected
  - if p valye is large it is considered insignificant.

## Performance Measure VS Cost Function
| Performance Measure                                                             | Cost Function                                                |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------|
| It is used to evaluate the model quality during cross validation with test data | Is used to estimate the model parameters by using train data |

## Steps (Using TidyModels)
1. Split Data
2. Prepare Recipe
3. Specify Model
4. Tune Hyperparameters
5. Fit Model
6. Analyze Model
7. Predict
8. Interpret Results

## Packages Used
- rsample
- recipes
- parsnip
- tune
- broom
- yardstick

## References
- https://tidymodels.org